= Instrument Control =

Instrument control is standardized into:
    * VISA
    * SCPI
    * IVI

## VISA

VISA is a means of connecting to instruments and sending and receiving from
many interfaces (GPIB/Ethernet/Serial/USB/PXI).


This provides a series of mechanisms from basic read/write through events
and triggering (software and hardware).


VISA does not dictate command or response format. It is provided by
National Instruments and Keysight, and perhaps others.

The tclvisa library provides a wrapping of VISA that is very nice.

## SCPI

SCPI is a common format to describe instrument commands. The format
is widely used, although there is no guarentee that the commands will
be identical between instruments.

SCPI is a simple text format.

SCPI commands can be sent over a VISA connection.

*OPC?
Operation complete. This can be sent after configuration settings to
wait for the settings to completely apply.

:system:error? 
Check for the most recent error.

*RTS
reset system error. This can be done before an operation like clearing
errno.

viWrite does not require a viRead for commands that set state.
there is probably a status register that could be checked instead.


## IVI

The IVI specification provides an API to instruments instead of text commands.
This requires a Shared Components installation from the IVI foundation,
and then drivers per instrument. The shared components pass information to the
drivers, which use their own formats to carry out commands.


This seems like a more controlled, proprietary system.

IVI provides a C and a COM API, and individual instruments may provide one,
both, or neither. 

