# Programming

## Forth
Put assembly forth on github

## Embedded

### Arduino 328p Processor

#### Learning Assembly
pared down compilation for assembly projects
    perhaps by starting with IDE process

direct assembly or Amforth projects

### Amforth
Repeatable amforth installation.

### STM32
Zig on STM32, perhaps with freertos

#### ProtoFlight
Continue protoflight implementation and testing.
run on windows, linux and freertos/stm32, and perhaps arduino
cosmos ground system

would want to flesh out initial modules to send hs, receive
commands, and monitor tasks.


## Zig

### GA/RGEP
Try GA and/or RGEP in Zig as a test. See if Zig is good for this
kind of thing.

Perhaps simple version, perhaps with extended features like in
that paper that cited my thesis.

Consider using Zig to create something generic.

### Games
SDL2 with Zig for creative coding/programming games.
Ideally get cairo working and try out drawing curves, font, etc

Text manipulation, distance fields, other effects with Zig.

### Zig Flight Software
What would the flight software architecture look like in Zig?


## Elf and DWARF
Learning ELF and DWARF. Perhaps a program to read file format,
or reorganize function sections (-ffunction-sections).

https://refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/elf/elf.pdf
https://www.gabriel.urdhr.fr/2015/09/28/elf-file-format/
https://www.gabriel.urdhr.fr/2015/01/22/elf-linking/

Reflection with DWARF would also be cool.

## Rust Roguelike
Unity integration

AI refactoring

Smaller, more modular core

More testing

More visualizations

WFC implementation - simplest possible version, 2d only, like the C project

