= Projects =

    * [[Programming]]
    * [[Articles]]
    * [[Books]]
    * [[Games]]
    * [[Podcasts]]

== Rust Roguelike ==

 * Cleanups github issues: https://github.com/nsmryan/RustRoguelike/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ACleanup
 * Stamina
 * Abilities
 * Read through the story section
 * Level win conditions
 * High level game structure
 * Add in-game console back in


=== References ===
Implementation spreadsheet:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1aH5VCo89Vbmrtdd0s_HKnHIMwlkwgM0OH7PLhI6qD_U/edit#gid=243824189

Wix Blog
https://manage.wix.com/dashboard/0464ec4b-b369-4156-bd0d-86dbb1f2b77c/home/?referralInfo=sidebar


== Blog ==

recent reading:
arduino spec
risc-v spec

sharks:
C, make, tcl, gnuplot, bash, tk
communicative languages

Cool things you can do with gcc article- just list these out a bit.
maybe also cool things with c- LD_PRELOAD, instrumentation in gcc,
valgrind for cache use, cil

Forth library writes ups- looking at each of pforth, libforth, atlast
for similarities, differences, implementation details and use.

Ti83 forth write up

how bad things are in c, low level programming. link to posts
on this. wishing for a better answer like a virtual machine or
simpler basic structures.
abi posts from phd
c is not a language anymore
how to make shared libraries

NEO posts: betawise review

embedded is easy. can see all code. read risc-v assembly
apis for RTOSs are much better then posix/windows
not everything is a file. most things are handles or
sets of registers
real time lets you reason about task context switching
you know how much heap and stack you have. its not a
weird mystery of oversubstription.

ti forth: post about my ti forth a bit. 
may post on https://groups.google.com/g/ticalcorg-advanced?hl=en

some fsw posts: 
message bus as queues, extends to filtering, routing, dynamic, monitoring, etc
fdir basic designs. stack language or simple operators.

post on zig drawing project with sdl2. very enjoyable. defer helps a lot
integration with c is mostly seamless.

== Low Priority ==

=== Neo ===

Continue review of 
https://github.com/isotherm/betawise
especially os3k.c. Write up the results on blog.

Maybe try compiling again?
I believe I didn't use quite the right toolchain last time.

=== Ukraine Bundle ===
https://01010111.itch.io/upsquid
https://futureproofgames.itch.io/ossuary
https://triple-topping.itch.io/ynglet
https://armor-games-studios.itch.io/20000atm
https://chucklefish.itch.io/inmost

Brogue letsplay:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gm5EIdpVHIM&list=PLnB5NenmrhCcB_2fYKYDsMsI1r5Ox59FX&ab_channel=tonehack


7DRL Entries 2022
https://itch.io/jam/7drl-challenge-2022/entries

