= SCPI =

# Oscilloscope
 
## Display

display a channel
:channelN:display (on|off)

vertical offset of channel
:channelN:offset

vertical range of channel
:channelN:range

vertical scale of a channel, in volts
depends on probe ratio
:channelN:SCALE

amplitude display unit
:channelN:(volt|watt|ampere|unknown)


### Image
get an image from the display
this is either bmp24, bmp8, png, jpeg, or tiff

this is in TMC blockheader format
#NXXXXXX
where N is the number of digits and XXXXX is the size
in bytes following this

This can be large, so might want to read # and N,
and then read the size, and then read bytes,
when reading this kind of data

### Waveform
waveform format is byte, word or ascii.
word is just 16 bits with all 0 in low byte


waveform:data? retrieves data
waveform:preamble?
<format>: 0 ( BYTE), 1   ( WORD) or 2 ( ASC).
<type>:  0 ( NORMal),  1 ( MAXimum) or 2 ( RAW).
<points>: an integer between 1 and 12000000.
After the memory depth option is installed, <points> is an integer between 1 and 24000000.
<count>: the number of averages in the average sample mode and 1 in other modes.
<xincrement>: the time difference between two neighboring points in the X direction.
<xorigin>: the start time of the waveform data in the X direction.
<xreference>: the reference time of the data point in the X direction.
<yincrement>: the waveform increment in the Y direction.
<yorigin>: the vertical offset relative to the "Vertical Reference Position" in the Y direction.
<yreference>: the vertical reference position in the Y direction.

